So printing with delegation is actually quite straightforward.
The first thing we'll do is grab a reference to the system class loader.
This is the class loader that's being loaded to load the
current set of classes on the class path.
The method is defined to return something of type classLoader.
It actually returns something of type URLClassLoader.
So we can safely cast it here to the URLClassLoader.
Once we have that, we can there add a loop.
And the loop simply says,
print out the class loader and then call this class loader's
getParent method. And when that doesn't return null,
go back around the loop and then print out the classLoader again.
If getParent does return null, we're at the top of the hierarchy,
and that means we've now reached the Bootstrap classloader.
So we simply print out the fact that we have that loader.
So we can now compile the code similar to what we had before,
so javac sourcepath.
In this case,
we are compiling Delegation.java and putting it into the classes folder.
Once compiled, we can run the code,
so we can do java ‑cp classes and then
com.pluralsight.delegation and let this run.
And we see it prints out three class loaders.
So we get the app class loader,
we get the extension class loader, and we get the bootstrap class loader.
So one more thing we can do with this delegation list is we can
print out a list of the URLs that the class loader is trying to
load its classes from, i.e. the locations that it's trying to
get the classes from.
And we can do that by adding another loop. So we can walk out to
each class loader and call getURLs, and this will return a
collection of the URLs we're loading from. And then we simply print
out the path for each of those URLs, and we just tab this and add a
new line onto the end.
So if we save this,
go back to the command prompt, and compile it again and then run it again,
we now see that the app class loader is trying to load from demos classes.
The extensions class loader is trying to load from everything in the extensions
directory. And then the bootstrap class loader, that's returned null as we've
dropped out of the loop, and we're not listing what it's loading, but this is trying to load our bootstrap classes.